---
locale: en-us
guid: 960f029e-c1fc-444c-bb46-ac92fdda5916
---

# Mobile Debugger Related Errors

The mobile debugging feature of Service Studio works through a connection to a specific Google Chrome instance which is launched by Service Studio when you start [debugging a mobile app](<../../../develop/troubleshoot/debug/intro.md#mobile-debugging-scenarios>).

Check below for a list of possible errors that may arise when starting or performing a debug session as well as some tips for fixing them.


## Google Chrome Not Installed Error

* **"You must have Google Chrome installed to use mobile debugging. Please install Google Chrome and try again."**

    To debug your application in the browser you must have a recent version of Google Chrome installed.

    Install Google Chrome and start a new debug session.


## Debugger Not Connected/Stopped Error

* **"The connection to the browser was lost. To prevent this error, do not open the Developer Tools in the browser while debugging."**

    The Developer Tools of your browser were opened. When this happens the debugger automatically stops.  
    
    Close the Developer Tools and start a new debug session.

* **"The connection to the browser was lost. To prevent this error, do not close the browser being used for debugging."**

    The browser tab used for debugging was closed. When this happens the connection to the browser is lost and the debugger stops.

    Start a new debug session.

* **"The application being debugged navigated to an external URL. To prevent this, do not navigate to a URL outside the application being debugged."**

    The browser tab being used for the debug session must not navigate to an external URL. If it does, the debugger will automatically stop.

    Start a new debug session.


## Client-side Debugger Not Responding Error

* **"The browser used for client-side debugging is unresponsive. If the problem persists, close all Chrome browser instances and try again."**

    The browser and the debug are in constant communication. If the browser gets unresponsive at some point the debug session will be affected.

    Stop the debug session and close the tab being used for debugging in the unresponsive browser; start a new debug session. If the problem persists, close all Google Chrome instances and try again.


## Client-side Debugger Could Not Start Error

* **"Could not start client-side debugging because the application was published with a newer version of Platform Server. To correct this, update your Development Environment."**

    To be able to debug a mobile app, your Development Environment version cannot be older than the Platform Server version where the app will be debugged (considering the same major release).  

    Install a Development Environment version greater than or equal to the Platform Server version (in the same major release).

* **"There was an error loading the application for debugging. The debugging session will not continue."**

    This error happens when the application load for debugging takes too long and a timeout occurs. 

    Start a new debug session. If the problem persists, check the Platform Server connectivity status.

* **"There was an error loading the application for client-side debugging. The debugging session will be server-side only."**

    This error happens when starting the debugger and loading the application for client-side debugging fails. The debug session will continue server-side only.

    Start a new debug session. If the problem persists, check the Platform Server connectivity status.

* **"A debug session can't be started due to communication problems. Check if the module is published and try again."**

    A module can only be debugged after being published.

    Publish the application to debug to the desired Platform Server.

* **"A debug session can't be started due to an internal server error. Try starting the debugger again."**

    An internal error occurred that is preventing the debugger from starting.

    Start a new debug session. If the problem persists, check the server status.


## Client-side Debugger Not Available Error

* **"Client-side debugging is only available from Platform Server 10.0.*xxx.x* onwards but your current version is *yy.y.yyy.y*. The debugging session will be server-side only."**

    To use the client-side debugger feature of Service Studio you must have the specified Platform Server version (or greater) installed. If you have an older version, the debugger will continue but you will only be able to debug server-side logic, or use Chrome Web Developer tools to debug the JavaScript code generated by the platform.

    Install the mentioned Platform Server version or greater or use Chrome Developer Tools to debug your mobile app.
