---
summary: Learn how to generate a mobile app package for test purposes and also how to share it so others can also test.
tags: runtime-mobile; support-mobile; support-Mobile_Apps
---

# Generate and Distribute Your Mobile App for Development Tests

While you are developing a mobile app, there are times when you have completed some work that you want to test on the device and share it with other so they can also test it.

In OutSystems, you can build and generate a mobile application package for your mobile app for test purposes and install it on the device. You can then share the package with other users following iOS/Android distribution process.

<div class="info" markdown="1">

You can also [distribute your app as a Progressive Web App (PWA)](../distribute-pwa/intro.md).

</div>

## For iOS

### Before You Start

* To test your app, you must have a certificate of type `iOS App Development` generated and configured in your Apple Developer account. If you don’t have one, learn [how you can create a certificate](<more-information-on-generating-and-distributing-mobile-apps.md#create-a-certificate>). 

* To allow launching your app in the devices of the end users group, you must setup the `iOS App Development` provisioning profile with the relevant device IDs. A provisioning profile allows your application to be launched on Apple devices and use app services. If you don't have one, learn [how you can create a provisioning profile](<more-information-on-generating-and-distributing-mobile-apps.md#create-a-provisioning-profile>).  
For more information on registering devices on your Apple Developer account,check the [Apple Developer website](<https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/AppDistributionGuide/MaintainingProfiles/MaintainingProfiles.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40012582-CH30-SW10>).

* To get the certificate and provisioning profile to generate the iOS app for your mobile app, you must have an Apple Developer account. If you don't, create a new [Apple Developer Account](https://developer.apple.com/programs/ "https://developer.apple.com/programs/"). 

### Generate the iOS App Package (IPA)

You can configure, generate and download an iOS mobile app package of your app for development tests in Service Studio or in Service Center.

To use Service Studio, do the following:

1. Go to the app detail screen of the mobile application for which you want to generate the mobile application package. Open the [Native Platforms](<intro.md#configure-and-generate-a-mobile-app-package-in-service-studio>) tab. 
1. Click on the **Configure iOS App** button or the iOS cog icon button if you've already generated a previous iOS app. 
1. In the  **Build type** dropdown, select the `Development` option. 
1. Keep the default app identifier assigned by the platform or write your own (matching reverse domain name notation, e.g. `com.domain.appname`). You have to register the same app identifier in your Apple Developer Account. 
1. Provide a certificate and a provisioning profile both of type `iOS App Development`. 
1. Click **Generate App**. 

When the app generation completes, scan the QR code or copy the created installation link using your device to install the generated iOS app.

To use Service Center, do the following:

1. Access Service Center of the environment (`https://<environmentdomain>/ServiceCenter`). 
1. Go to **Factory**, click on the **Applications** tab and open your application from the applications list. 
1. Select the [Native Platforms](<intro.md#configure-and-generate-a-mobile-app-package-in-service-center>) tab and click on the **Configure** link for the iOS entry. 
1. In the **Build type** dropdown, select the `Development` option. 
1. Keep the default app identifier assigned by the platform or write your own (matching reverse domain name notation, e.g. `com.domain.appname` ). 
1. Provide a certificate of type `iOS App Development` and its password. The certificate should have a .p12 file extension. 
1. Provide an `iOS App Development` provisioning profile that matches the certificate you provided. The provisioning profile should have a .mobileprovision extension. 
1. Click **Save** to save your settings. 
1. Click **Generate** and wait a few moments while the app is being generated. 

After the app is generated, click the download icon near the version information to download the iOS app package (IPA).

### Distribute the App for Development Tests

To share your app with others, send them the QR code generated by Service Studio, the installation link or the app package (IPA) itself.

<div class="info" markdown="1">

Have in mind that only selected devices specified for the provisioning profile can install and open the app.

</div>

## For Android

### Before You Start

* If you want to sign the debug version of your app with a custom keystore (which is an optional step in the procedure below) and you don't have one yet, [check how you can create a keystore](<more-information-on-generating-and-distributing-mobile-apps.md#create-a-keystore>).

### Generate the Android App Package (APK)

You can configure, generate and download an Android mobile app package of your app for development tests in Service Studio or in Service Center.

To use Service Studio, do the following:

1. Go to the app detail screen of the mobile application for which you want to generate the mobile application package. Open the [Native Platforms](<intro.md#configure-and-generate-a-mobile-app-package-in-service-studio>) tab. 
1. Click on the **Configure Android App** button or the Android cog icon button if you've already generated a previous Android app. 
1. In the “Build type” dropdown, select the `Debug` option. 
1. Keep the default app identifier assigned by the platform or write your own (matching reverse domain name notation, e.g. `com.domain.appname`). 
1. _(Optional step)_ If you want to use a custom keystore to sign the debug version of your app: 
    1. Expand the **>Configure Keystore** section in the **Native Platforms** tab. 
    2. Select the keystore and introduce the passwords. 
    3. Fill in the alias name and password of the private/public key pair to use. The alias you must use is the one generated when creating the keystore.
1. Click **Generate App**. 

When the app generation completes, scan the QR code or copy the created installation link using your device to download the Android package (APK) and install it.

To use Service Center, do the following:

1. Access Service Center of the environment (`https://<environmentdomain>/ServiceCenter`). 
1. Go to **Factory**, click on the **Applications** tab and open your application from the applications list. 
1. Select the [Native Platforms](<intro.md#configure-and-generate-a-mobile-app-package-in-service-center>) tab and click on the  Configure  link for the Android entry. 
1. In the **Build type** dropdown, select the `Debug` option. 
1. Keep the default app identifier assigned by the platform or write your own (matching reverse domain name notation, e.g.`com.domain.appname`). 
1. _(Optional step)_ If you want to use a custom keystore to sign the debug version of your app: 
    1. Select the keystore and introduce the passwords. 
    1. Fill in the alias name and password of the private/public key pair to use. The alias you must use is the one generated when creating the keystore. 
1. Click **Save** to save your settings. 
1. Click **Generate** and wait a few moments while the app is being generated. 

After the app is generated, click the download icon near the version information to download the Android app package (APK).

### Distribute the App for Development Tests

To share your app with others, send them the QR code generated by Service Studio, the installation link or the app package (APK) itself.

<div class="info" markdown="1"> 

In case your device blocks the installation of the app since it was obtained from an unknown source, go to the device settings and allow the installation from unknown sources to fix it.

</div>
